ACD-416 (#6)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: RetailSuiteAccounting/Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md

[!!User Interface select fiscal year](../UserInterface/00a_FiscalYear.md)  
[!!User Interface FY/MONTH/JOURNAL](../UserInterface/00_Book.md#fymonthjournal)  
[!!User Interface fixed bookings](../UserInterface/02f_FixedBookings.md)  
[!!Manage fixed bookings](../Integration/06_ManageFixedBookings.md)  

# Select the fiscal year

> When you open the *Accounting* module for the first time after login or after reloading the system, a window to select the fiscal year is displayed. You have to select the fiscal year, the month and the journal to display the bookings in the corresponding period. You cannot make any action in the *Accounting* module before selecting a fiscal year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you open the *Accounting* module for the first time after login or after reloading the system, a window to select the fiscal year is displayed. You have to select the fiscal year, the month and the journal to display the bookings in the corresponding period. You must have selected a fiscal year to perform any action in the *Accounting* module.
```
Positive Formulierungen

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](../Integration/01_RunAccountingWizard.md).
- A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](../Integration/04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).

#### Procedure

*Accounting*

![Select fiscal year](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/SelectFiscalYear01.png "[Select fiscal year]")

1. Select a fiscal year in the *Fiscal year* drop-down list.   
  The *Period* date fields are filled in automatically.

  ![Fiscal year fields](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/SelectFiscalYear02.png "[Fiscal year fields]")

2. Select a month in the *Month* drop-down list.

> 

Reviewer: Hier vielleicht noch ne kurze Info, wozu ich den Monat auswählen muss?

3. Enter a journal number in the *Journal* field. Alternatively, click the [LIST] button to display a new window with the available journals and their bookings.

>   > [Info] Journals 1-12 are matched with the corresponding months, irrespectively of whether or not the fiscal year coincides with the calendar year. That means that all bookings registered in the first month of the fiscal year will be found in the journal 1, all bookings registered in the second month of the fiscal year, in the journal 2 and so on.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] Journals 1-12 are assigned to the corresponding months, regardless of whether the fiscal year coincides with the calendar year or not. This means that all bookings registered in the first month of the fiscal year will be found in the journal 1, all bookings registered in the second month of the fiscal year in the journal 2, and so on.   
```

>   > [Info] Journals 1-12 are matched with the corresponding months, irrespectively of whether or not the fiscal year coincides with the calendar year. That means that all bookings registered in the first month of the fiscal year will be found in the journal 1, all bookings registered in the second month of the fiscal year, in the journal 2 and so on.   
>   Exceptions to this are special journals, such as the journals 90 to 99, which are defined in the accounting settings for balances carried forward. For detailed information, see [Journal](XX_Journal.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] Journals 1-12 are assigned to the corresponding months, regardless of whether the fiscal year coincides with the calendar year or not. This means that all bookings registered in the first month of the fiscal year will be found in the journal 1, all bookings registered in the second month of the fiscal year in the journal 2, and so on.   
  Journals 90 to 99 are special journals defined in the accounting settings for balances carried forward. For detailed information, see [Journal](XX_Journal.md).
```
Link anpassen oder entfernen

> 4. If required, mark the ![checkbox](../../Assets/Icons/Checkbox.png "[checkbox]") *Include fixed bookings* checkbox and select a batch from the displayed list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If required, mark the *Include fixed bookings* checkbox and select a batch from the displayed list.
```

[!!User Interface Select fiscal year](../UserInterface/00a_FiscalYear.md)
[!!User Interface Settings fiscal years](../UserInterface/02d_FiscalYears.md)
[!!User Interface Postings header](../UserInterface/./01_Header.md)
[!!User Interface Fixed postings](../UserInterface/02f_FixedBookings.md)
[!!Manage the fiscal year](../Integration/04_ManageFiscalYear.md)
[!!Manage the fixed postings](../Integration/06_ManageFixedBookings.md)

# Select the fiscal year

A fiscal year is the period over which a company's accounts are calculated, which generally lasts 12 months and which may or may not coincide with the calendar year.

> A journal is a chronological record of all accounting transactions posted within a specified period of time. There are two main types of journals preconfigured in the system:
> 
>   - General journals (1-12) are paired with the corresponding fiscal year months, regardless of whether the fiscal year coincides with the calendar year or not. This means that all transactions posted automatically in the first month of the fiscal year will be found in journal 1, all transactions posted in the second month of the fiscal year in the journal 2, and so on. Therefore, when selecting a posting period to perform a manual posting, make sure that the selected month and journal match.
> 
>   - Special journals (90-99) are preconfigured in the system to post automatically open items and balances to be carried forward from a fiscal year to the next one. The special journals settings can be edited and extended in the *BALANCES CARRIED FORWARD* tab in the *Settings* menu entry. For detailed information, see [Balance carried forward](../UserInterface/02h_BalanceCarriedForward.md). Further journals can be created if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A journal is a chronological record of all accounting transactions posted within a specified period of time. There are two main types of journals preconfigured in the system:
- General journals (1-12) are paired with the corresponding fiscal year months, regardless of whether the fiscal year coincides with the calendar year or not. This means that all transactions posted automatically in the first month of the fiscal year will be found in journal 1, all transactions posted in the second month of the fiscal year in the journal 2, and so on. Therefore, when selecting a posting period to perform a manual posting, make sure that the selected month and journal match.
- Special journals (90-99) are preconfigured in the system to post automatically open items and balances to be carried forward from a fiscal year to the next one. The special journals settings can be edited and extended in the *BALANCES CARRIED FORWARD* tab in the *Settings* menu entry.    
For detailed information, see [Balance carried forward](../UserInterface/02h_BalanceCarriedForward.md). Further journals can be created if necessary.
```

> Special months are also preconfigured in the system for special business transactions, such as balances carried forward or subsequent postings. For detailed information, see [Select fiscal year](../UserInterface/00a_FiscalYear.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special months are also preconfigured in the system for special business transactions, such as balances carried forward or subsequent postings. For detailed information, see [Fiscal year](../UserInterface/00a_FiscalYear.md).
```

Journals and months are used to arrange a company's business transactions within a fiscal year. A particular posting period contains only the postings made in that specific period.

> ## Starting the *Accounting* module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Start the *Accounting* module
```

> When you open the *Accounting* module for the first time after logging or after reloading the system, a window to select the fiscal year is displayed. You have to select the fiscal year, the month and the journal to display the postings in the corresponding period. You must have selected a fiscal year to perform any action in the *Accounting* module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you open the *Accounting* module for the first time after logging in or after reloading the system, a window to select the fiscal year is displayed. You have to select the fiscal year, the month and the journal to display the postings in the corresponding period. You must have selected a fiscal year to perform any action in the *Accounting* module.
```

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](../Integration/01_RunAccountingWizard.md).
- A valid fiscal year has been created, see [Create a fiscal year](../Integration/04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).

#### Procedure

*Accounting*

![Select fiscal year](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/SelectFiscalYear.png "[Select fiscal year]")

> 1. Click the *Fiscal year* drop-down list and select a fiscal year.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the *Fiscal year* drop-down list and select a fiscal year. All available fiscal years are displayed in the list.    
```

  The *Period* date fields are filled in automatically.

2. Click the *Month* drop-down list and select a month. The selected month determines the posting period, this means, the period where the transaction is posted. The accounting month plays a determining role when generating system evaluations.

> 3. Enter a journal number in the *Journal* field. The journal, or posting batch, is a superordinate criterion for the arrangement of postings. Selecting the correct journal is extremely important for the data exports. Alternatively, you can click the [LIST] button to display the *Journals* window with the available journals and the postings contained in each of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter a journal number in the *Journal* field. Alternatively, click the [LIST] button to select a journal in the *Journals* window which is displaying all available journals and the postings contained in each of them. The journal, or posting batch, is a superordinate criterion for the arrangement of postings. Selecting the correct journal is extremely important for the data exports.
```

  ![Journals](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Journals.png "[Journals]")

4. If required, select first the *Include fixed postings* checkbox and then a batch from the displayed list.

  > [Info] If the *Include fixed postings* checkbox is selected, all fixed postings in the selected batch will be automatically posted when opening the selected period in the fiscal year. For detailed information about creating fixed postings, see [Create fixed postings](../Integration/06_ManageFixedBookings.md#create-fixed-postings).

5. Click the [OK] button in the bottom right corner.   

>   The postings registered in the selected posting period (fiscal year, month and journal) are displayed in the *POSTINGS* tab in the *Post* menu entry.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *POSTINGS* tab in the *Post* menu entry is displayed for the selected posting period.  All postings registered in this posting period are displayed in the list of postings.```

> ## Accessing postings from another period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Access postings from another period
```

[comment]: <> (Evtl. Datei 13_AccessBookingsPeriod.md löschen. Info hier)

> Once a posting period has been selected, it is possible to change to a different one. Accessing postings from other periods may be necessary, for example, if a posting needs to be adjusted or if a transaction performed at a later stage must be manually posted in a specific period.

Author: ```suggestion
Once a posting period has been selected, it is possible to change to a different one. Accessing postings from other periods may be necessary, for example, if a posting needs to be adjusted or if a transaction performed at a later stage must be manually posted in a specific period. The posting period can be changed from each tab within the Post menu entry.
```

> 

Reviewer: The posting period can be changed from each tab within the *Post* menu entry.

#### Prerequisites

- A valid fiscal year has been created, see [Create a fiscal year](../Integration/04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).
- A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select fiscal year](./01_SelectFiscalYear.md).

#### Procedure

> *Accounting > Post > Tab POSTINGS*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Accounting > Post*
```

![Postings](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Book/Bookings/Bookings.png "[Postings]")

1. Click the *FY/MONTH/JOURNAL* button in the postings header.  
The *Select fiscal year* window is displayed.  

  ![Select fiscal year](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/SelectFiscalYear.png "[Select fiscal year]")

> 2. Follow the steps **1** to **5** described in the [Starting the *Accounting* module](#starting-the-accounting-module) section to select the desired posting period.

Reviewer: Das ist zwar so richtig, ich würde das hier aus einem ersten Reflex raus nochmal Schritt für Schritt beschreiben. Lass uns nochmal drüber sprechen, wie wir das machen. Bin noch unentschlossen
